[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now, world
renowned spirit medium James
Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE AND CHEERING]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
[LAUGHS]
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And thank you also
very much for tuning in
to "Spirit Talk," where I take
you one step closer to heaven.
And today we have a
very special show today,
because today we're going to
talk about the subject which
is very, very interesting to me.
I find it very fascinating.
Many of you know that the
measurement of the world
is based upon energy,
energy being molecules that
vibrate or move at a
certain rate of speed.
Everything is energy,
everything is vibration.
And many people have asked
me over the years, what
do you do besides meditation
to tune in to the energy?
So obviously, well, there will
be different types of things
you can use.
For instance, the crystal balls.
You use a crystal
ball, you can tune in
to the crystal ball
using that as a tool.
The Ouija board is another
tool if used correctly.
You can use a dowsing rod.
You can use
handwriting analysis.
You can use many different
types of methods or tools
in order to get into the
truth to recognize the energy.
So today's show, we
are going to specialize
in what's called numerology.
And I have brought with me
one of the top in the world
numerologists.
And she's going to join us
today and have a wonderful show
all about numbers and the
measurement of numbers.
So please help me welcome the
world renowned Glynis McCants.
Glynis?
>>GLYNIS MCCANTS: Yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Please
step on my stage.
>>MCCANTS: All right.
All right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
Have a seat.
>>MCCANTS: I'm going
to get this chair.
Hi, guys.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So, Glynis.
Thank you for being here.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
Good to be here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: For people that
know nothing about numerology
at all, which a lot of people
do not know, tell us first,
well, what is a numerologist
and what is numerology?
>>MCCANTS: Well, numerology
is a science of numbers.
It is 2,500 years old.
And Pythagoras was the
creator of the system.
That's the system I use.
There's more than one.
And the belief was that
everything in the universe
has vibration, but
especially people.
And that's why when you meet
someone you're like, ooh,
I like this person.
Or you meet someone, say, OK.
Now I'm tired.
I feel a little depressed.
Can you kill that person?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can we
all relate to that?
Yes.
There are some audience
members I really like.
Others I just can't.
>>MCCANTS: Oh,
it's just so true.
And so I would say
that's heartbreaking
unless you have this tool.
I simplified this with my
books, "Glynis Has Your Number,"
"Love by the Numbers."
What I did was help you
be able to break down
people in your life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so
hold on one second.
So if I look at somebody
or I go into a certain,
let's say, in a space,
like a location,
and everything has energy.
So I'm either looking
at that person,
I'm feeling the
energy on one level,
but you're saying to me also
that that person's energy,
there's a number that
corresponds with that energy.
>>MCCANTS: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that
you're picking that up.
>>MCCANTS: It goes like this.
There's three
numbers in the name
that a person goes
by, first and last.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let me get
this slowly so I know,
because I'm very slow.
OK.
>>MCCANTS: Is your
show that long though?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, it is.
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
>>MCCANTS: Here we
go, grasshopper.
You got three in your name.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Three in your name.
>>MCCANTS: And three
numbers in your birthday.
And those six numbers give
you a numerology blueprint
of who a person is.
And when you have that, you're
able to do chart comparisons
to see how you do
with other people.
Because then you find out
where are we compatible
and where are we different?
With that kind of
knowledge, you actually
could get along with anybody.
If someone is toxic to you,
if you have the inside line,
you're going to know how
to communicate with them.
And then you do OK.
You can handle it.
And that's why I teach it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
there are people
in your life that-- there are
toxic people in your life,
of course.
>>MCCANTS: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Obviously.
And to stay away from them.
And let me ask you this.
Not everybody's a
numerologist like you are.
>>MCCANTS: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And not
everybody can really
add numbers like you can.
I've seen you.
You're like a
regular calculator.
But is there some way that
they can just meet a person,
and just maybe they
give their first name.
Is there a way they can read
them in a numerical way?
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How
do you do that?
>>MCCANTS: There's a
fun thing we can do.
We can do this with
the audience today.
The first vowel
in your first name
tells me something about you.
And that would be
true for all of you.
And it comes from A, E, I, O, U.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Which are all--
>>MCCANTS: All
are vowels, right?
>>VAN PRAAGH: One,
two, three, four?
>>MCCANTS: Right.
But I'll do you.
Or sometimes Y. Remember
they talk about that?
Y becomes a vowel when it's
between two consonants.
Like my name, Glynis?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: G-L-Y-N-I-S?
Because that Y is between
L and N, it is a vowel.
So I would count it.
Now each letter has a number.
So A is one, E is five.
Each one.
O is six.
So we could keep going.
But let's play with your
audience a little bit
on this one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
do my name first.
>>MCCANTS: Of course
I'm doing you, darling.
[LAUGHTER]
Like I'm not going
to do him first.
I got it.
James.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
J-A-M-E-S. And J would be--
>>MCCANTS: A would
be your vowel.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A. OK.
>>MCCANTS: And A is
one, which means all
about being number one.
What can I do?
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you
want the first vowel.
You want J-A.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, the
first vowel in your name.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that's a one.
>>MCCANTS: In your case, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: And A means striving
to be the best at what you do.
You're very self-critical.
You know, if you feel
like you come up short,
you beat yourself up.
You could do a great job,
one thing goes wrong,
and you're kind of
haunted by that one thing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: True.
>>MCCANTS: I'm sure you've
worked through stuff like that
because that's who you are.
But the other thing about
your name, James, J-A
means double one.
No matter how good,
not good enough.
So you actually-- whoa.
Your standards are high.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: I mean, you
are running a serious--
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's true.
>>MCCANTS: You're
running a serious race.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's true.
>>MCCANTS: Right?
As so it's like
you reach the goal,
and you go, OK, what's next?
What's next?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very true.
>>MCCANTS: It's very hard
for you to just relax.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very true.
>>MCCANTS: And of course
with someone like that,
I would recommend
yoga, meditation,
anything to just calm it down.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I run.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
So let's just do quickies of
someone who doesn't have an A,
but how about E?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, but
let me just ask you this.
So the first name is just
the first vowel in that name
you're looking at?
>>MCCANTS: Well, yeah.
But you'll see the example.
If I said E with
someone like Elaine,
I would explain that energy.
Do you want to do any of that?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sure.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
E is five.
Does anyone have an E
as their first vowel?
Go ahead.
>>AUDIENCE: Jennifer.
>>MCCANTS: Jennifer.
So Jennifer with the E, E means
natural detective, digging
for truth, you can't
stand not knowing.
If you feel like
you're in the dark,
you're going to do
whatever it takes
to find out what
really happened.
So I actually feel
sorry for people
who lie to you, because
you always get the truth.
[LAUGHTER]
How true is that for you?
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Natural lie detector.
>>MCCANTS: Now note this.
That's all from her name.
Just Jennifer, just a vowel.
So see how fun that is?
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's great.
>>MCCANTS: So instead of
doing the full blown research
of numerology, which
I would encourage,
you can do it that quickly, too.
Just make a note of, uh oh.
Jennifer, don't
mess with Jennifer.
She's going to find
out what would happen.
But it also means
celebrator of life.
You love to go to the party.
You can't wait to be
there, and you're a giver.
You know?
When you give to someone,
you're so excited to see them.
>>AUDIENCE: You're
revealing way too much.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, I know.
But when you give something, you
can't wait to see the response.
Like, you love to give.
And it's not even as
comfortable when you receive.
It's like, ooh.
What do I owe you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: There it is.
Just from Jennifer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So someone
will say to me, well,
that was a psychic
reading you just did.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, but I would say
to you, anyone in your audience
already knows we're all psychic.
That's so silly
to me when people
try to mock the word psychic.
Stop your nonsense.
If the phone rings, you
were thinking of your friend
and it's your friend,
that is psychic.
And it's psyche.
But for me, we have
tools like you.
When you're reading--
[SNAPS FINGERS]
Look, I saw you with astrology.
This guy's dangerous.
When you've got your
tools, you're ridiculous.
And you just start going.
So we find tools that
open the third eye.
But we all have a
natural psychic ability.
Some of us fine hone it.
When I do numerology, my
third eyes is wide open.
You can run, but you can't hide.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, and she's
also a very, very good healer.
Amazing healer,
amazing intuitive.
I've seen her work.
How she gets into the
numbers and then just
goes right into the real strong
clairvoyance, very strong.
What about one more person?
You want to do their name?
>>MCCANTS: How about an I?
Someone who is-- vowel.
Go.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, Gina.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Gina.
[LAUGHS]
>>MCCANTS: That was adorable.
She was just going
to stare at you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So Gina.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: That was at the end.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
between these two over here
in the audience,
I'm not sure yet.
He doesn't know
where she is, and she
doesn't know her first
name, so a little scary.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So Gina.
>>MCCANTS: Gina, the I is nine,
and that often means issues
from the original family.
Like, growing up you were like
an old soul as a little kid,
beyond your years.
And you actually have to find
a way to let go of the past
so you can be happy today.
Because when something's
bothering you,
it's really hard to let it go.
It lives in your head.
And then when you find
ways to be in the moment,
you are way past happy.
You don't remember
your name, evidently.
[LAUGHTER]
But otherwise,
really, it's a gift.
And it also means
people assume you
know what's going on even
when you have no clue.
Right?
So they count on you to do.
And you're like, OK, I
don't want to let them down,
so you come through for them.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: Now that's
from a first name, James.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's amazing.
>>MCCANTS: A vowel.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Amazing.
And you're very psychic,
you're very, very intuitive.
You know that.
You're very intuitive.
You don't trust it, but
you're very intuitive.
Have you been told
that before now?
>>AUDIENCE: A couple times,
but I'm just-- I'm learning.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You are.
Good.
OK.
How about one more, then
we'll do a little meditation?
>>MCCANTS: OK.
So A-- OK.
We've got A, E, I,
O. Who's got the O?
>>VAN PRAAGH: You've
got to be an O. No?
>>AUDIENCE: I, actually.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
That's OK.
U?
Who's got a U?
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Jude.
>>MCCANTS: Spell it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: J-U-D-E.
>>MCCANTS: The U
actually loves to laugh.
So it's funny you
look so serious.
Now she's giggling.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's got
a good sense of humor.
>>MCCANTS: You can have
the most serious face.
But if something's funny,
you're on the floor.
[LAUGHTER]
You are.
You're ridiculous.
And you love the gossip.
I'm sorry.
If you got the scoop it's
like, what do you know?
Fill me in.
Tell me what's really going on.
And the U often has a laugh.
Like, I think of Julia
Roberts, because she's
known for that laugh.
Especially in the
ad lib moments you
hear her where she
laughs so sincerely.
Your laugh makes people
want to be funny around you.
How true is that?
>>AUDIENCE: That's true.
That's very true.
>>MCCANTS: I feel better.
I will keep this day job.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know Jude,
and that's very accurate.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
Oh, great.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now I want to
talk a little bit about-- first,
anybody have questions
so far about numerology?
OK.
You have a question, love.
>>AUDIENCE: So my
name's Lynda with a Y.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: And I always
say that's because that
was my first word, why.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
[LAUGHS]
Yes.
OK.
Now that does make a big
difference by the way.
Because Lynda with the Y,
that means of course everyone
misspells your name.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>MCCANTS: So who gave you that?
>>AUDIENCE: My mom.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
So your mom, you know,
she's a troublemaker.
And I say that with love.
[LAUGHTER]
Honestly.
Anyone who messes
with a normal name,
spells it a little different,
it's going to mess you up.
And you're constantly going,
actually, it's with a Y.
So you constantly have to
say, it's actually with a Y,
because you automatically go I.
Now here's what's
good about it for you.
Y is seven, which
is spirituality.
So even though you can be
social, you're also a loner.
You need to be by yourself.
And you observe and
hear everything.
And then you're the one who
walks around going, who am I?
What am I?
Why am I here?
And nature's beauty
speaks to you.
Ocean, mountains, plants,
flowers speaks to your soul.
If it's a good
sunset, you're glued.
It's like, wow.
Look at that.
So you're really an observer.
So no matter what
your other numerology
is that might point to other
things, that's your soul.
And it's about spirituality.
Once you find your real
base of faith to believe in,
you're going to be
very content with that.
Have you found it yet?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I really feel I have.
>>MCCANTS: And when
did you find it?
>>AUDIENCE: When I was a child.
>>MCCANTS: OK, so you've
had it a long time,
which is a huge blessing.
But do you journal at
all, write things down?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>MCCANTS: That's huge
for you, because you
have to clear your mind.
You think way too much.
Hard to let it go.
I mean, your mind is clutter.
So if you just
purge it to paper,
you're going to feel better.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Purge it to paper.
I love that.
>>AUDIENCE: I love that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Purge it to paper.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
Purge it to paper.
>>AUDIENCE: I love that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very, very good.
Very good.
OK, thank you.
I thought it would be great
if we did-- everybody knows
about "everything
is energy" and you
can read people based
upon the numbers.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But also
I find with my work
that I do I'm able to
talk to dead people.
That's easy for me.
The hard part is when I see
some people come to a group
and they bring with them
all of their past history,
all of their expectations,
all their belief systems,
other people's energy there,
other people's energy who's
sitting in their space,
causing toxicity,
causing a sense of limitation,
causing a sense of fear.
And I think that's our
responsibility every day
as spiritual beings having an
experience to really cleanse
ourselves and really come
from a space of the heart.
Every day I think
we need to do that.
I really do.
We take showers every
day, or baths every day.
At least I hope some of you do.
[LAUGHTER]
I would know.
I could smell you.
So I know that we're
concerned about
our cleanliness with
our physical body,
but what about our spirit body?
So I'd like to bring us-- and
you understand that, of course.
>>MCCANTS: Of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
maybe we'd would
do something with--
could you talk
about vibrations and energy?
>>MCCANTS: Well, here's what I
would tell you about vibration.
Because we all deal with
humans and some of them
are toxic to us, their
toxicness gets on us,
so we have to clear the space.
And when you do
meditations, you're
protecting yourself again.
I call it a white
light of protection.
So that no matter
who comes around you,
they can't hurt you.
Because that's what goes wrong.
You could be in a great
mood, but if toxic energy
comes around, they depress you.
You suddenly feel sad.
Well, they just put their
stuff on you, didn't they?
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's true.
>>MCCANTS: So when you do
this clearing of meditation,
you're giving them the
purity of themselves
again so that they can be in the
moment and learn today from us.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you're going
to have your seat back there
and I'm going to go
lead a meditation
and I'll bring you back up.
Is that all right?
>>MCCANTS: Yes, darling.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, doll.
>>MCCANTS: You look
handsome in the suit.
I mean, aren't we going
to acknowledge this?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
you look gorgeous too.
>>MCCANTS: You do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We've known
each other many, many years.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
can tell, right?
It's like brother
and sister here.
So yeah, you're going to sit
in your chair down there.
Good, get off the stage.
>>MCCANTS: Oh, you
mean not there?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Get--
>>MCCANTS: Wait, you
want me to do what?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Back
down to the chair.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: Off the stage?
This is hurtful.
[LAUGHTER]
What did I say
about toxic energy?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, just go.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: I'm now depressed.
I have to clear my space.
[LAUGHTER]
Thrown off the stage.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's a Leo.
Loves showbiz.
[LAUGHTER]
Spotlight.
OK, then.
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
So this is just going to be
a way to clear your space,
to clear your energy
around you, and really
clear the sense of, if you
will, the mind attacks.
I call them mind attacks.
From other people
thinking of you,
what you come into this
space with carrying,
other people's thoughts on you,
other people's energy on you.
So anyone you talk
on the phone today,
talked on the phone
yesterday, you still
have their energy on you.
And a lot of people think, if
they just think a white light,
that'll be it.
No.
Because white light is
a wonderful deterrent
for keeping energy out, but
it also keeps things in.
So you want to make sure,
before you put that white light
around you that you've
cleansed your space
and that you're very much in
your center of your being.
So I'm just going to guide you
through a little meditation.
And I think we're
going to, because we
talked about vibration today
with Glynis and numerology
and vibration, we're going
to do a little bit of toning
vibration.
So we'll go through
a series of exercises
where you will
visualize bringing
the energy, the toxic energy,
the foreign energy, away
from your space using
Mother Earth, who
is a wonderful energy
of-- nurturing energy
who will take energy and
really recycle it to love.
That's what she does.
That's what Mother Earth
does, and nurtures us.
And then we'll go back
and cleanse our space,
and then we'll bring ourselves
in a perfect level of tone
and then receive the
inspiration from Glynis
and myself in the spirit world.
Is that good?
OK.
So just close your eyes.
Just close your eyes
and just give yourself
a couple of moments
to be with yourself.
We worry so much about the past.
The past has already happened.
The future is yet to be.
So all we truly have
is this moment now.
So I just want you
to imagine yourself
in a beautiful garden
of your own creation.
The flowers and trees,
daffodils and roses and lilacs,
lilies, sycamores,
birches, any kind of trees,
flowers, gardens you'd like
envision in your mind's eye.
And become aware that this
is your spiritual garden.
And as you go in your mind
to this spiritual garden,
you hear music behind my voice.
You're going to go in the
middle of this green field.
In the middle of
this green meadow
is reserved just for you,
just for your healing
and just for you to bring
balance back to your bodies.
Get back into your
sense of self.
So as we breathe,
we're going to imagine
a beautiful golden
light coming down
within us through the top of
the head all through the body.
And as we exhale
out of the mouth,
we're going to let go of any
old energies we've been holding
onto, any old thoughtful
forms, any old limitations,
any old negative thoughts,
other people's energy.
Anything which does not
encourage our growth,
we're going to release that.
So together let's inhale
that beautiful golden light,
and inhale.
[INHALES]
And hold it two, three,
four, and exhale.
[EXHALES]
And let it go.
Let it go.
And you can imagine
just energy coming out
of your mouth, your hands.
Just going back to Mother
Earth, recycle to love.
And again, and inhale.
[INHALES]
Holding it two, three,
four, and exhale.
[EXHALES]
And let it go.
Let it go.
And one more time, and inhale.
[INHALES]
Illumination,
illumination, illumination.
Holding it two, three,
for four, and exhale.
[EXHALES]
Good.
And as you stand
there in that field,
that beautiful
green field, I would
like for you to
imagine now that there
is a little bit of a little
vacuum, a tiny little vacuum,
and the tube goes right
down to Mother Earth.
And I just want you to use that
vacuum with your imagination
and vacuum away, from
the top of your head
going down the back, any
energies of other people,
any old thought forms
of other people,
going down through
the head area,
taking away, vacuuming
away any energies which
are sitting there in your
space which do not belong.
You vacuum your shoulders,
your lower back,
the top of the back,
and then the lower back.
And you might begin to see
actual fragments or faces go
into this tube down to Mother
Earth to recycle to love.
Just notice how you feel as you
vacuum away these energies down
the back, around the
hips, down your legs.
Feel the lightness
which you feel,
which you become aware of as
you take away those heavier,
dense energies.
And now in front of you, start
with the third eye center.
Any energies, any
psychic debris that
is sitting there which
does not belong to you,
which has been placed there
by thought forms of others
or yourself, any
energy that is not
of your highest good, vacuum
away, take away that energy.
Just vacuum it away, going down
through the mouth and the neck,
around the shoulders, the heart.
Any emotions you've been
holding onto which are not
serving your highest
good, just imagine--
[VACUUM SOUND]
--being pulled right
out that vacuum.
Down the tube to Mother
Earth, recycle to love.
Down the midsection, the stomach
area, very strong psychic
centers.
Reproductive area, very
strong energetic area.
Any energies there that
do not belong there.
And down the legs.
It's OK to send
back their energy.
And the right side, vacuum
away in the right side
all the energies you've been
giving away to other people.
Anyone's energy in that space.
Very good.
Clean out the atmosphere.
Clean out your space.
Very good.
I see you're doing
a very nice job.
Now the left side.
Cleanse away, take away,
vacuum away any energies there
that do not belong there.
A lot of old memories it
looks like, old remnants
of memories, old mind thoughts.
Pull them away, vacuum
them away, down, down.
There you go.
Good.
When you give more space
for yourself to grow,
that's what you're meant to do.
You're a spirit.
You need to grow.
You need to expand
on this earth.
And you can do that if
you let yourself release
those old energies which
are holding you back.
And the left side.
Great.
Now, very good.
Look around the whole
body, the whole atmosphere,
the whole space which is you.
Any energy still
holding on, vacuum away.
Great.
Now in your mind's eye,
in your imagination,
put that vacuum
away in your pocket.
And I just want you now to
assess your energy space.
Assess the atmosphere
all around you,
the energy bubble,
your auric field,
and become aware of any leaks
or holes or tears, pulls.
And if you have that, all
of the sudden, like magic,
a cloth comes in front of you.
You can just wipe away
that hole, that leak,
and it goes right
back to itself.
Goes right back, connection.
Connection is strong.
You want to move the energy,
you want to vibrate the energy.
We can do each
chakra point, which
are the energy
centers of the body.
Seven main energy of
the centers of the body.
And we can illuminate them and
activate them with a sound.
So we're going to
all together begin
to use the sound om to
activate each center.
Are you ready?
Join me.
[CHANTING OM]
Good.
And as you sit in your
space, ask in your mind right
now, send out a thought
for your loved ones
in the spirit world, your
guides and your teachers
a welcome sign.
We welcome you, dear spirit
friends and guide and teachers
for your help and
assistance today
in bringing through
loved ones who
have made the change
known as death.
We ask, dear inspirers,
philosophers and teachers
and angels, for
you also to open up
the minds and hearts
of these beings
here on Earth to
the new teachings
that they might hear
today through Glynis.
We thank you, dear
spirit friends,
for your guidance, your
help, and your love.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
[LAUGHS]
Wow.
That was good.
All right.
Let me turn the music down.
That's fine.
Did you enjoy that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did you feel the
energy raise up at the end?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The whole
room was like, whoa.
That's great.
That's really,
really, really great.
So would you like to
join me back on stage?
>>MCCANTS: Yes,
darling, I would.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Come on.
>>MCCANTS: Thank you, dear.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Then I'm going
to let you do your thing.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We'll
just see how it goes.
You know?
And I might join
in and do something
with the spirit
world or vice versa.
We'll just jump at it.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: So I'm going
to do some numbers.
Hello.
[LAUGHS]
Hello, little vibrations.
All right.
Let me say what I do and why
I think numerology's great
is that when you
simplify, you're
able to apply it to your life.
So I'm going to do
some quick reads
to show that there is no
such thing as a stranger when
I've got your number.
And that would be true for you.
Once you learn it, you
could say the same.
Just don't run around
doing exactly what I do,
because then I'll track you
down and say, that was my book.
[LAUGHTER]
We've been through that a lot.
OK.
Let's see.
How about you in the red?
And what is your first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Laura.
>>MCCANTS: OK, Laura.
Now when I say there's three
numbers in the name, three
numbers in the
birthday, that's when
I have time to really
break down names.
I'm not doing that today.
I'm just doing your first name
with your full date of birth.
And what is your
full date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: April 26, 1963.
>>MCCANTS: 1963.
OK.
Three, four.
So, now this is interesting.
You look friendly, but you're
actually tough as nails.
You know you are.
Who knows her?
Anyone next to her?
Please.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: The three of them.
>>MCCANTS: Ladies,
how true is that?
>>AUDIENCE: True.
>>MCCANTS: You know,
it's like you've
got the three attitude
which is, I'm fun, you know?
Hey, let's play.
But then you're like,
well, what's the plan?
Well, where are we going?
What's it going to cost?
[LAUGHS]
OK?
And the other thing
for you, a liar.
It's a deal breaker for you.
If someone lies to you,
it's like, I really
can't know you because
not I'm really hurt.
It's like, all you had to
do was tell me the truth.
Because even if it's a bad
truth, you're still OK.
It's just, you just
need them to be honest.
So that's a biggie.
And then eight means I
don't mind working hard,
but where's my paycheck?
[LAUGHS]
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: OK, so
you need your money.
And my lesson for you would
be, be careful with your words.
You're very honest,
but you've got
to be careful how you say it.
Because when they misunderstand
you, you feel bad.
It's like, wow.
How did that happen?
I was only telling the truth,
but now they're upset with me.
How often does that happen?
>>AUDIENCE: Not often.
>>MCCANTS: And who does it
happen with when it does?
Family?
What is your family?
Kids, what do you have?
>>AUDIENCE: I have
two daughters.
>>MCCANTS: Do they
never misinterpret you?
>>AUDIENCE: They do.
Yes.
>>MCCANTS: Thank you.
That's all I'm saying.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let
me ask a question.
We'll do this.
You just did Laura.
You did her name, or the numbers
to her-- letters of her name.
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you brought
it down to one single letter--
number which is--
>>MCCANTS: A.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Three
is the attitude,
and you have a 4 is the--
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
What happens is, the day she
was born, 26, 2 plus 6 is 8.
And then month and day, 04/26,
when you break it down to one
digit, it's a 3.
And when you took her full
date of birth, 04/26/1963,
add it all the way
across, it became a four.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I see.
>>MCCANTS: But what
I was saying is,
because she's got a 3,
which is natural counselor,
it means you give
advice all the time.
But when it's not
listened to and you
watch them make the mistake you
were trying to help them avoid,
that bums you out.
But I know your kids
misinterpret you.
You can't have a 4 and not
sometimes feel misunderstood.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And do you
have issues with your dad?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because I would just
add for you-- because I
know as I look at her.
I know she has issues
with her father.
And there's a separation
between your father
and your mother in
some way, and you never
healed from that
relationship breakup.
You know that.
You understand that?
And part of it
feels as if want--
you might have thought I caused
that or if I did this to stop
it, this wouldn't have happened.
And I shouldn't.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It almost feels
like I'm responsible for it
and I could've stopped
that from happening.
OK?
Is your dad passed
over to the other side?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's right to your
left, to the left side of you
right here.
He has brown hair that I'm
seeing there right now.
Brown and very handsome man.
Brown is off to the side.
Is that with the side.
Because I know I have
a part right here
and I'm going to push my
hair over to the side.
I know that one of my kids
has a comb of mine still,
there'd be a comb
that still exists.
And I know that they tried
making him as nice as they
could at the end, but
no one could have.
Do you understand that?
And there's also an old train.
So he shows me an old train.
So I don't know if he
worked on the trains
or had something to
do with old trains.
>>AUDIENCE: His father
worked on the railroad,
and he loved trains.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I know that
as he was a young kid,
around 10 to 15 years of age,
he used to go on those trains
all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know he used to work
for the father on
the trains in that.
I don't know what he did, but
his father gave him some coins.
So he must have done
something on those trains
he would get money for it.
He's met that man again.
And is there a sister
that you know out west?
Or is there a sister you have?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it's
her birthday today.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because he wants to
give love to the sister.
Yeah.
Very, very important.
I know there's a Robert
somewhere as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who's that?
>>AUDIENCE: My cousin.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
your cousin Robert?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
there's a Robert there.
I know in the spirit world
that there's definitely--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, and I'm sorry.
Robert--
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Robert's down here?
>>AUDIENCE: Here on Earth.
There is another Robert.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Your father would know the
Robert in the spirit world.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
That's what we're talking about.
>>AUDIENCE: Got it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You've seen him.
Some military
connection as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Got
to tell you that.
It's very important to your dad.
There's a military
connection to that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't know if
you can see it in the chart,
but there's definitely
some-- I feel on a soul level
as well, there's some
soul-- definitely some soul
lessons here, some karma if
you want to call it karma,
some integration of family here.
And your own value
to that family,
that people in that family don't
know you who you really are.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>MCCANTS: But that
comes from-- yes.
Three, eight, four.
You always misinterpret it.
I just said, look,
she's adorable.
She looks like a student.
She looks like a
first grader, really.
Look at her.
I mean, she's like
that perfect kid
who came to school
with her perfect hair
and her perfect outfit.
That's very eight four.
You don't want to look bad.
It's depressing.
It's like, I want
to make an effort.
I say that all the
world's a stage, right?
So why not make an effort?
Why not at least
try to look good?
And then going back
to hard lessons,
you actually hit your
head before you learn.
That's how you learn.
And when someone tells you how
to do it, it's like, please.
Give me a chance here.
It's like when they push you
into doing what you don't and
then it falls apart.
You're like, I can't believe
I let them have me do that.
So that's how she learns.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
think also that it's
so interesting that
are no accidents.
There are no
accidents whatsoever.
The whole thing about that
meditation which we just did,
which I've never
done here before,
is all about letting
go of things.
Because you've been
holding onto your family
stuff, your grandparents'
stuff, the family
image, the family that
people think of you,
what was not said
before they passed over.
I wanted to say this,
but I didn't say this.
And I feel your
father passed away
and he didn't say
what he wanted to say.
Your mother separated
from him, didn't
say what she wanted to say.
Everybody that's in that family
tend to keep things aside.
>>MCCANTS: Ah, but look how
precious those shoes are.
If that's not a little kid.
Are those not Mary Janes?
Am I imagining it?
[LAUGHTER]
What are those?
>>AUDIENCE: It's so interesting
that this is coming up.
Because I usually hang
out in my yoga pants.
I'm barefoot.
>>MCCANTS: Yes, but here
you are dressed today.
And now I'm seeing the
little girl in you.
And you know that little girl
in you is alive and well.
You know that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: And that comes
with your three attitude.
You're like, I
just want to play.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: And that's when,
when life gets too intense,
it's like, whoa,
where's a good song?
Where's a good movie?
You know?
You really appreciate
anything creative.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: But those
shoes are precious.
That's where I'm getting
that little girl.
I see her.
She showed up today.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I just
want you to-- you
know that military picture
of your father that you have?
I want you to take that out and
put it in a different place.
You just saw it recently.
And I want you to sit down
and write a letter to him.
And I want it all to come out.
OK?
Because there's some aspects
that have not been healed yet.
You might think they
have, but they haven't.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
then I want you
to turn the page over and
write a letter from him to you.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because he
has a lot to say to you.
It would take a
whole season of shows
to say what he wants to say.
But you've got to
be good on yourself.
You can't go around
life-- everybody--
you can't go around life holding
that energy within because it
ends up being dis-eased.
You have to have an
easement of the flow.
And when there's an energy which
is resentment, anger, words
that were not said, it
builds up that energy
that dams up the
energy and the flow.
And you don't want that because
it'll manifest physically.
So you need to get
that out, all right?
Thank you.
OK.
You can applaud her.
That's great.
[APPLAUSE]
I have something very
interesting for you
which you've probably
never done before, darling.
>>MCCANTS: Really?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mm-mm.
>>MCCANTS: This
will be interesting.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So is it possible
that I could contact a spirit
and you could do the
numbers of the spirit?
>>MCCANTS: Well,
here's the deal.
I need birth numbers.
Obviously her father passed.
If you can give
me those numbers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No, no, no.
But if I am able to
get through somebody--
>>MCCANTS: No.
I would never make
up numbers on stage.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No,
no, no, no, no.
Listen, darling.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The person-- if I
was able to get someone through
and the person knows
their mother's birthdays.
>>MCCANTS: Of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I want
to talk to a mother that
passed over right over here.
Your mom passed over?
Would you mind
standing up, please?
>>AUDIENCE: That
might work better.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what is your name?
You have a hard
of hearing, so I'm
going try to be
as close as I can.
Your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Peter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Peter.
I know I have a mother here
very, very clearly coming
to you.
Very, very clear.
And I don't know why she wants
to show me making the peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches--
[LAUGHTER]
--and she's cutting
off the edges--
>>AUDIENCE: Mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --because he
doesn't want to have the crust.
She's cutting off
the crust for you.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that's why
she said, he'll know about that.
He'll know about that.
And I know there
would have been,
when you were younger
as she comes to my mind,
she goes to a younger time
of life, much, much younger.
And I feel it's a
much happier time.
OK?
I feel we're all together then.
We were all together then.
And at one point it seems
like the whole family
and then some relatives
also are living together.
So the whole family kind of
lives together in one compound.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
OK.
And would you know about the
lake in front of the house?
Or there was a lake.
I don't know if you went to--
>>AUDIENCE: I live on a river.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
live on a river?
OK.
Well, she visits
you at that river.
Do you go fishing
sometimes at the river?
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And if
I go to your house
where you live right now, where
your mother's bringing my mind,
I want to go to
three fishing rods.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Shows me one, two, three.
I'm very, very aware of that.
I'm very aware
also she says to me
that you recently went in town.
Does that makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I need to let you know
there's a Mary somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: Mary?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mary.
Mary.
In the spirit world
there's a Mary.
>>AUDIENCE: Her best
friend was Mary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her
best friend was Mary.
So you knew Mary.
I know that they would sit
together in the afternoon
and have some chat, some chats.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They come over
and have a little cigarette--
[SMACK]
--and have some chats.
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: Trying to stop.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But
she shows me this.
>>AUDIENCE: I know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
I know your mother would
have had glasses at the time.
Glasses.
So I think I might be in the
late 1950s or early '60s.
But I know that I
have the glasses here
and they go up to the
edge and the hair is back.
I know Wednesdays would
have been a hair day.
Go to a hair day on Wednesday.
You remember that.
Thank you very much.
Now I know that she
likes to wear her hose.
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK.
Well, I'll just-- I'll tell you.
Don't worry.
And I also--
>>AUDIENCE: No, that's Mom.
That's Mom.
Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that there
would have been-- some of her
things are still around you.
I know you have a
brother, don't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that you and your brother,
your mother says, are like night
and day, like night and day.
Yeah, but you're
like night and day.
You're very different people.
You're like very
different people.
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
If I go to your--
[LAUGHTER]
If I go to your place
where I'm coming out
the stairs outside
where you live,
is there a downstairs behind the
staircase that you can go into,
a storage area?
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So you must have something,
a kayak in there or some--
>>AUDIENCE: It's a root cellar.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
a root cellar.
OK.
She's with you
there all the time.
[SIGHS]
And I also want to ask you,
there's a Jimmy somewhere?
Jim?
>>AUDIENCE: Jim.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Jim.
>>AUDIENCE: Same
initials as you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: J.V.P.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, J.V.P.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is in the
spirit world, J.V.P.?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yep, yep, yep.
Well, you have love from
this J.V.P. I like him.
You have love from him.
You have love from him from
the spirit world to you, OK?
A couple of things.
And your father's
also passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: My father?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
father, has he passed?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know a while
ago, like 20 or 30 years ago.
But I got to tell you
that your mother is
the one in the family
that keeps them together.
And she's very, very big
about the old Christmas cards.
So I know that you've
collected her Christmas cards,
and I know that you have
a tin of those cards
with her old Christmas
cards that she
had whether she received
them from people.
You have them.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uh huh.
And I know you were
recently looking at them.
Very recent, last week,
you were looking at them.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
were, weren't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Would you remember when
your mother's birthday is?
>>AUDIENCE: November-- it's
right around Thanksgiving.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's right
around Thanksgiving.
So in the 20s maybe?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
November 18, November 19.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you remember
the year she was born?
>>AUDIENCE: 1926.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 1926.
So very good.
So I'm going to throw
it off to Glynis.
>>MCCANTS: He said he's not
sure of the actual day, honey.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Not sure
of the actual day.
>>MCCANTS: No, and
that's really important.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: If the number's
wrong, so is the reading.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's her name?
>>AUDIENCE: Peter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Peter.
Her name is Peter.
>>MCCANTS: No, isn't
his name Peter?
>>AUDIENCE: No, last name?
>>VAN PRAAGH: No,
your mother's name.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, Marjorie.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Marjorie.
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: I'm
sorry, I'm sorry.
>>MCCANTS: It's OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's a
very interesting family.
>>AUDIENCE: Marjorie.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm Peter.
That's Marjorie.
>>MCCANTS: Her name was not
Peter, not with those hose.
>>AUDIENCE: No, that's Marjorie.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: All right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: Marjorie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let's see
what Glynis can tell you
about your mom with numerology.
>>MCCANTS: Right.
So can you remember
the actual day?
>>AUDIENCE: November 18, 1926.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
Let's go with that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thanks, Mom.
I wish you could
have given me that.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: Two, three, eight.
Oh.
OK.
Your mother, although
was not an actress,
but she was performance ready.
[LAUGHTER]
Right?
I mean, known for her
eyes, her smile, her voice.
Very distinctive.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>MCCANTS: She's
a three life path,
but she was also very intuitive.
You couldn't get
away with anything.
She called you out.
>>AUDIENCE: You couldn't.
>>MCCANTS: No.
>>AUDIENCE: She had
eyes behind her head.
>>MCCANTS: She did have eyes
behind the back of her head.
She did.
And the thing is, because
she was born on a nine day,
her family was not as
terrific as she would like.
Like as a mom, her parents.
She tried to do it
better with you guys.
She wanted to be a good mom.
>>AUDIENCE: She was.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
But that's where it came from.
She was motivated
to do it right.
And then what's
your date of birth
to your mother's date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 9/19/53.
>>MCCANTS: And then
what is your first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Peter.
>>MCCANTS: You're
still Peter, huh?
[LAUGHTER]
The reason I'm
asking, I could have
swore-- what was
your last name then.
>>AUDIENCE: Last name?
>>MCCANTS: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Van Putten.
>>MCCANTS: OK, yeah.
You never said that today.
OK.
That's fair.
Because I thought you said
your last name for the family
was Peter when we had the
mix up with the mom's name.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's OK.
>>MCCANTS: All right.
One, nine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you're
looking at his name now.
>>MCCANTS: Well, I'm actually
looking at his birth numbers
compared to his mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: One, OK.
So I would say that you--
your mom couldn't control you,
you know?
You're very independent.
That double one energy, you
wanted to do it your way.
So when she tried to
control, it's like this.
If I say go left and you
don't like the way I say it,
you go right.
You do do that?
Absolutely true.
OK?
And then nine was
your attitude number,
so that was your
respect for her.
Like, you loved your mom,
but you needed freedom.
And there were times she
felt a little controlling.
Because that two attitude is
like, where are you're going?
What are you doing?
What's going on with you?
Like, whoa.
I just need my time.
I don't want to
tell you everything.
But the reason you would feel
so connected and miss her,
you were actually
compatible in numerology.
You loved your mom.
Like, you got a kick out of
her and you were actually
proud of her.
You know, there were things
that you were proud of,
but she had a lot to say,
and you couldn't shut her up.
Once she was upset--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, oh forget it.
>>MCCANTS: You could
not shut her up.
[LAUGHTER]
That's why you're having
trouble with hearing.
You're like, I can't
listen to all of this.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
can't hear all of it.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm giving up.
>>MCCANTS: Count on it.
I promise you, that
shuts down the ears.
Like, what?
Forget it.
Anyway, but that's how it works.
That's how it goes.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Yeah, very good.
[APPLAUSE]
OK.
We can go to someone else.
Good.
That's very
interesting isn't it?
It's very, very interesting.
I want to talk over here about
a gentleman that passes over.
And I feel like I have a
father figure on this side.
It feels like a father or
a father-in-law feeling.
And I want to go in
this area over here.
Which one lost a father
or father-in-law?
There you go.
You.
Very good.
Is that possible
I can come to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, would
you mind standing?
And what is your
name, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Karen.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Karen.
Karen, this would be your
dad, then, that passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And would there be
a lady over there
with, like, a mother-in-law
or another-- a mother
or a sister of his on
the other side as well?
>>AUDIENCE: Sister and mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Sister and mother.
Fine.
Because I know that as
I come in with this man
here on his level, there's a
woman who would know of him
and who grew up with
him and knows of him.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: His sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I also want
to ask who Steven might be,
or a Steve.
>>AUDIENCE: My husband.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your husband.
So that lady over
on the other side
here is talking about
Steven or Steve.
And he's still down here
on the earth, Steve?
Yes.
So this lady in the
spirit world, his mother,
must have passed
over, is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Not his mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
so his grandmother?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad's
mother's over there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your dad's mother.
This would be connected to him.
So I would say it's his
grandmother on the mother's
side of the family.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
She's married to a Steven.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK, so listen carefully.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
So this would be the grandmother
of your husband's mother.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So she's already passed
to the other side of life.
She's in the spirit world.
You didn't know her.
>>AUDIENCE: No, I did not.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So you're just going to have
to give a message to Steven
that she's saying hello.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
talk about somebody who's
addicted to drugs or had
drug problems at one point.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was that him, or
was that someone in the family?
>>AUDIENCE: It's
someone in the family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is it
one of your siblings?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who is it?
>>AUDIENCE: It's my
mother's brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did
that person pass over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Had trouble with
drugs, drinking?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Great.
Are you having problems
walking-- hold on.
Are you having problems--
go on, slow down.
Your father's trying
to come in and he's
trying to explain himself to me.
Your father's a
very mental person.
He's very black and white.
He likes things with facts
and details, your father.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
But he's not a very
warm person, OK?
He cannot emote well.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he was not
able to show his emotions when
he was-- when you were
growing up with him.
And I got to tell you, the
feel's like in some ways, oh,
these kids, they had
to happen, you know?
And I'm sorry to
say that, but I have
to bring through the
energy of this man--
>>AUDIENCE: That's fine.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --and that he's
coming in for this healing for.
But I get a strong, strong sense
that he didn't know any better.
Didn't know any better.
I feel this man
was brutalized when
he was a young
kid by his father.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you might
have heard stories about that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But it's
really, really strong.
So I know there's abuse there.
Now I don't get him and
your mother together at all,
so your mother must
still be alive?
>>AUDIENCE: She is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I don't get
them at all together.
I don't really get him visiting
her because when he visits her,
he feels really bad.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I think there might
have been some physical
abuse some time with her
and him and some
emotional abuse.
>>AUDIENCE: Emotional.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't like it.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Sorry.
I don't like it.
I want to say William or
Wills or Bill somewhere also
with that name.
Would that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
He wants to bring in that name.
I want you to know he's trying
to help you settle down.
You, yourself have a
hard time settling down.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I have a
hard time settling down.
And it comes to a point
where you don't really
feel comfortable with yourself.
There's a feeling of, I can't
feel comfortable with who I am,
I don't know who I am, I don't
feel comfortable with who I am.
And a lot of that stuff
you get in from genetics,
you know, from your dad's side.
I've got to say that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
right like this.
But you're so much
better than that.
You're not your dad.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're not your mom.
You're your person.
You understand that?
And you've got to
get-- I would love
for you to start doing
yoga on a regular basis
and meditation on
a regular basis.
And I don't like the
people that you're around.
Sorry.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Don't like
the people you're around.
Don't know who it is, but I
don't like the people around.
Have you been around a
treatment center at all?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Have you ever
thought working about one?
Working one as a
volunteer person?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I like that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I really, really
like you being in that energy.
I like you to help people
like in a treatment center.
And I feel like if you help
them, you're helping yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
Because I feel very
unsure of myself.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Were
you married twice?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, he just
said that to my head here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So he's
saying, and she's still
finding herself.
And he's apologizing for
not having the relationship
with you like he should have.
Because he didn't have a
father-son relationship
with you, and he was a
distant father at the best.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: At best, he says.
He didn't give a crap.
That's what he's saying.
That's how he's saying it.
That's how he's saying it now.
So we're giving him the space
to come into just to just,
hopefully, heal that
relationship with you,
let you know he came
all this way just
to let you know he's
around you and thanking you
as best as he's able
to, as he's capable of.
Now I don't know if you
want to get her numbers.
>>MCCANTS: Of course.
Are you kidding?
Now I'm going to tell you.
I can guess a couple of
numbers for her though.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>MCCANTS: I mean, what you say.
There's got to be a two.
There has to be a nine.
So let's see.
What's your date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 4/22/65.
>>MCCANTS: Well, there's
double two, thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
All right.
4/22 what?
>>AUDIENCE: 1965.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, OK.
Hold on.
So born on a four.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
an interesting person.
It's complex.
>>MCCANTS: Oh, she's
a two life path.
Who said two first?
Oh, that was Aunt Glynis.
So thank you.
Thank you.
I will be here.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm here.
Yes.
The Numbers Lady.
I'll tell you why I knew that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>MCCANTS: Twos feel so deeply.
I mean, if you could, you
would collapse and cry.
And you try so hard to be stoic.
>>AUDIENCE: I can't
clear everybody from me.
>>MCCANTS: I know,
honey, but yes you can.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>MCCANTS: And one
of the things--
I know he does other exercise--
but I always think of it
as the Starship Enterprise,
which we are evidently--
[LAUGHTER]
--on the Enterprise.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>MCCANTS: But what you do
is every morning, you light
your white candle,
you shut your eyes,
and you pretend you're the ship
that has the safety lights that
come up to protect it.
What's that called, guys?
>>AUDIENCE: Shield.
>>MCCANTS: Put the shields up.
Your shields are down,
and they can't be.
So here's what's ironic.
When you're in a good mood
and you're full of love,
someone stabs you.
Like one of the negatives.
And you're like, oh my god.
I was so happy.
>>AUDIENCE: Completely deflate.
>>MCCANTS: If you put the
shields up, you're still happy.
You still could be happy.
But you're like, I'm
not going to fall in.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>MCCANTS: And my
analogy to the two,
if someone fell in
the well that you
love, you'd jump in the
well and go, what's wrong?
Oops.
Now we're both in there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>MCCANTS: So you
didn't save them.
You didn't save you either.
Master number means
you feel called
to master your life, so
again, hyper critical.
Your standards are way too high.
When it goes wrong,
you beat yourself up.
An eight attitude means--
here's where you're ironic.
You do speak your mind.
You do get upset.
Like, when you're pushed
to the wall, you go off.
She is something to watch.
Like a reality
program could be you.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I can see that.
>>MCCANTS: But then when
it's over, you're crushed.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>MCCANTS: And you're
drained and depleted.
It's like, I never
wanted to go there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>MCCANTS: So I'm telling
you just by your numbers
you have to get back to
your heart and protect it.
Your two needs love.
>>AUDIENCE: I had a heart
attack, and I can't open up.
>>MCCANTS: Not surprising.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
not surprising.
>>MCCANTS: Not surprising.
A heart attack simply
means too much.
I did too much.
I'm just going to have to
suggest numberslady.com.
Track me down.
I want to fix your numbers,
because she's a mess.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is
that your website?
>>MCCANTS: I'm afraid it is.
Thank you, James.
It is my website.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mention it again.
>>MCCANTS: It's
www.numberslady.com It's true.
[LAUGHTER]
That's uncanny.
But numberslady.com.
And do we talk about his dad--
her-- just to see what he was?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Do you know his birthday?
You know your dad's birthday?
>>MCCANTS: He has a
seven, the father.
>>AUDIENCE: 8/21/1939.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
8/21/1939.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Leo.
>>MCCANTS: So three, two,
two, three, three six.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Leo.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just saying.
Leo.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah,
well, I'm sorry.
August 23.
Does this scream Leo?
I only see a lion when
I look at this guy.
[LAUGHTER]
So don't talk to me about Leo.
All right.
Here's the heartbreak
about your father.
He could be very
charming, you know?
He was funny.
When he was funny,
you really liked him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>MCCANTS: But because
he was ultimately
a six, if daddy ain't
happy, no one's happy.
Moody.
>>AUDIENCE: Moody.
>>MCCANTS: He could be so moody.
It's like-- and remember,
since you're so darn sensitive,
so you're having a good time,
and now Dad's in a bad mood
and now you're not happy.
It's like, oh gosh.
How do we fix this?
How do we make it better?
But you couldn't.
So the fact that you had
a heart attack already
tells me-- when was
that, by the way?
>>AUDIENCE: 15 years ago.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
You've got to take your
life back, your power back.
Stop feeling so much.
You really can overcome this.
I know-- You know, this
sounds wild, but I always say,
the pity pool, make sure it's
not warm and comfortable.
You have a nice pool.
When you swim, it feels good.
Mine's ice cold.
I jump in it and go, oh god.
I've got to get out.
I want you to just stop paying
that bill for the warm water--
[LAUGHTER]
--and make it ice cold so it's
not even an option anymore.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, because
that's not who you are.
>>MCCANTS: It's not who you
are, and it's stopping you
from having this great
life you deserve.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, you can't
identify with that anymore,
because we're not our past.
We're not our past.
>>MCCANTS: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
we're not our future.
We're just now, in
this moment now.
>>MCCANTS: That's right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
the more we live in--
>>AUDIENCE: I just
got diagnosed with all
of those people's
diseases though.
And so it's hard to disconnect.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: If you want them,
you can have anything you want.
>>MCCANTS: How about this?
What you don't
deal with mentally
will attack you physically.
So of course you
just took it all on.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's very true.
>>MCCANTS: But you
can get rid of that.
And I know Gaiam
supports Louise Hay.
You can heal your life.
Do you have the book?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>MCCANTS: Time to
stay home and read it.
>>AUDIENCE: Read it.
OK.
>>MCCANTS: And affirm
it and kick that out.
You don't need any of that.
You don't need that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You make life.
Don't let life happen to you.
You make life happen.
OK?
That's really important.
For years before,
you let life happen.
Now you've got to
make life happen.
OK?
And you have to
start with yourself.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
God bless, sweetheart.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
OK.
OK, so we'll try
something very different
now that we have Glynis here.
That was really,
really interesting.
And let's start with Glynis
starting going in and then
see what I can pick up
from what Glynis gets.
Go ahead.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
So I call this
fast food reads in
that we could flip
through several people
in your audience, which
I'm sure they'd love that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh great.
Go for it.
>>MCCANTS: Over here has
felt neglected, I'm positive.
They're like, you're
not even looking at us.
So I'm going over here,
and I'm going to you.
You look neglected.
>>AUDIENCE: I was feeling
a little bit neglected.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
What's the name you go by?
>>AUDIENCE: I actually--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Today.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, today?
Rebecca.
>>MCCANTS: Rebecca.
And that's a beautiful name.
And date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 10/28/51.
>>MCCANTS: Well, wait.
When you're stripping,
what name do you go by?
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: I use your
name when I'm stripping.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: Then you ought
to make a lot of money.
They can hook you up.
Glynis--
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're the psychic.
Hold on.
You go back down the chain.
>>MCCANTS: Glynis the stripper.
I love it.
All right.
So Rebecca.
And then date of birth?
>>AUDIENCE: 10/28/51.
>>MCCANTS: 51.
One, two, three.
OK.
You're ultimately a nine
life path, as are you, James.
It is the old soul.
It means when you
were a little girl,
you knew things
beyond your years.
You always were more evolved.
You watched your parents like
a science project, you know?
You kind of made a note.
What's acceptable, what
do I like, what don't I
like, what won't I
do when I grow up?
You did all of that.
The fact that you're
born on a one day, which
is the beginning--
like in numerology, one
is the beginning, nine is
the number of completion--
it tells me you-- the world
is your oyster, Rebecca.
There's nothing you can't do.
And I'm sure you like
to experiment a lot.
Like look at so many things.
And then ultimately,
your attitude number's
two which means psychic.
When we talk about psychic,
you really have it.
Like, people can get
up in front of you,
you're like, I like this person.
Or you meet someone and
go, that doesn't feel good.
And you feel it really fast.
How true has that been for you?
>>AUDIENCE: 100%.
>>MCCANTS: Right.
Right.
And so there's a thing
called personal year cycle
that we talk about.
And in your case,
this year you're
on a personal year
of nine, which
is clearing your space
for new beginnings.
So throwing things away
and considering movement
in work and home.
So tell me what you're
doing in that way.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I just
got back from Portugal.
>>MCCANTS: OK, so you left.
And how long were you there?
>>AUDIENCE: Six weeks.
>>MCCANTS: OK.
And that had to
be great for you.
Because that whole
experience of,
what am I learning,
and then coming back
with that new knowledge.
But what about your
home environment?
Where are you?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm in a temporary
situation, which I always am.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah, but
you need to get out.
I'm just saying it's
not ideal where you are.
But next year is the
cycle of one for you,
which is getting into the
driver's seat of your life.
So I think that's
like work wise,
creatively, it's time
for you to act on it.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hmm.
I feel that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And Portugal
was a sense for you
to go way and cleanse
things, move things, brand
new beginnings.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now I don't know
if your mom had passed over,
please.
Your mother passed over?
Your mother?
Because I get her right
to the side of you.
I feel like part of
that trip to Portugal
was saying goodbye
to your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Or letting
go of old things.
>>AUDIENCE: Letting
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I think your
mother's a nice lady.
Even though you didn't know her,
I think she was a nice lady.
I think that your
mother could only
do with what she
was-- what she knew.
>>AUDIENCE: I agree.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't
think she knew a lot.
I think that by her
age of 11 or 12,
she was forced into
being an adult.
And she had to be the adult.
And I think that her
childhood went like that.
Do you know about that?
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know
a lot about it though.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I just know with
this lady that she'd
be an adult when
she was younger.
I just get that really strong.
And she keeps on
telling me that you
were not there when
she passed then?
You weren't around
when she passed?
>>AUDIENCE: We
weren't communicating.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
>>MCCANTS: Let me tell
you why I know that,
is she had to let her mom go.
Honestly, a healthy nine often
is nowhere near their family.
If I say to a nine life
path, where do you--
I don't think he has parents.
Do you?
Do you believe James
Van Praagh has parents?
I've never seen them.
The point is, he's a nine.
And what nines have
to do is they go off
to do their own adventure,
to live their own life.
If they stay close
to the family,
it's often dysfunctional.
So you had to let her go.
It's like, no, I got to
get happy for me now.
Now it's my turn.
But the number nine also means
movement of-- what's that line?
The prophet is not
recognized in their hometown?
The prophet?
You had to go away to be you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're a teacher.
You know you're a teacher.
You know that.
And it's just a matter
of bringing that out
of yourself, that own
self-worth of yourself.
And try to not live
your parents' lives;
live your own life.
>>AUDIENCE: It's
very interesting
that you said I'm a
teacher, because I
was told that a long
time ago in a dream.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm a psychic.
I know this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, but
it's like, teach what?
You know?
>>MCCANTS: No,
but you know what?
I'll tell you what
you teach, just
like that disconnect
from family, about hope.
It's all hope for you.
When you feel you give someone
else hope, you feel better.
That's the kind of
teacher you will be.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Teach about life.
Teach about life.
I know your dad also
must have passed over
because he's over this way.
But your mother's over here.
And I know that your mother
wants to say that she's-- hello
and she's concerned about you.
And I want to talk about the
other family members, she said.
Get in contact with
the family members
she was talking to me about.
I don't know if you just
recently tried calling somebody
but they didn't call you back.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And she said she's trying
to help you with them.
Your sister or brother
or something like this,
she's trying to
help you with that.
I know you're going
to have two more
places of living
before you settle down.
And she's telling me, two more
places of living, settle down.
And I don't like
that your things
are in two different places.
So I don't like your
storage over here
and your other things
are over there.
It's like two different places
where your things are at.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, not really.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Where do you have your things?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm a minimalist.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're a minimalist.
So do you have something
at a friend's house?
>>MCCANTS: She has a
toothbrush and that necklace.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let me respect
what the mother is saying.
You have things at
someone else's house.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I do have
paperwork at my son's house.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Great.
You do.
So I want you to hold on to
some things a little bit.
Why do they scare you?
>>AUDIENCE: It's just baggage,
literally, to carry around.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yep.
Just pen, piece of
paper, a pen, that
would be good to
hold onto eventually.
Or a toiletry bag.
>>MCCANTS: Can I tell
her something kind of fun
about her?
Your pinnacle cycle, her final
pinnacle that she's in right
now is nine.
And nine is when you give
to others, you receive.
So it's really
important that you give.
Like, that is who you are now.
It's like, I don't want to
keep too much for myself.
Because every time you give,
you actually feel better,
and then the universe kind
of takes care of you anyway.
Isn't that what's happening?
>>VAN PRAAGH: You didn't have
a relationship with your dad
that much, did you?
>>AUDIENCE: Not a good one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Not a good one.
I've just got your dad
and your mother there,
but they're looking after you.
And be OK with getting
favors from people.
It's OK.
It's OK to ask for help.
>>MCCANTS: You're not good
at asking for help at all.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No,
that's what they said.
You gotta do that.
You're going to have to
do that, relearn that one.
>>MCCANTS: But are
you good at it?
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm pretty
good at it when I need it.
>>MCCANTS: Yeah?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh yeah.
I'll call you.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCCANTS: I think
that's other numbers.
Because the nine life
path, their big thing
is, if you care about
me, you know what I need.
And I shouldn't have to ask.
You often think that.
If they really care-- so if they
don't care, I'll do it myself.
So the analogy is, if
you were in the ocean
and you're drowning
they're like, look.
She's swimming.
And your head's bobbing.
It's like, no, she's drowning.
But you look OK because
you didn't tell them.
That's your lesson
is to speak up.
You have to tell
people what's up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You guys
should talk to each other.
>>AUDIENCE: I've actually
been working on that,
and it's been hard,
but I've been doing it.
>>MCCANTS: And you're
in the cycle to do it.
Life path, she's-- her
personal year, her pinnacle,
and her life path is all nine.
It's time.
Good for you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You guys should
hook up after the show is over.
Because you guys have
very similar energies
and life experiences,
you two girls.
Well, thank you, everyone.
Thank you Glynis very much.
>>MCCANTS: Oh,
you're so welcome.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, everyone.
Thank you.
You want to come with me?
>>MCCANTS: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All right.
Thank you and until next
time, go with love and light.
Thank you all very much.
Thanks a lot.
Follow me, baby.
Come on, let's go.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]